Add ADR for replacing harbor with ECR. (#930)
alphagov/gsp: docs/architecture/adr/ADR046-replace-harbor-ecr.md

# ADR046: Replacing harbor with ECR

## Status

> Pending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accepted
```

`Pending` is a weird status... If I hit merge now, do we raise another PR just to change it with accepted? :trollface:

## Context

Harbor has proved itself to be rather unstable (causing several incidents from
various root causes). We have also been gradually rolling back our usage within
GSP of the various tools that harbor provides:

* we are not using notary for signing (image provenance); this is now being

>   handled by gatekeeper

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  handled using image digests instead of tags, enforced by gatekeeper
```

* we haven't yet implemented anything using Clair

> * we no longer have a requirement for public and private repositories

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* we no longer have a requirement for anonymous public access of docker repositories
```

It is also worth noting that some of these (e.g. "Clair") have been integrated
into AWS ECR since we last looked.

Following the "dev namespaces" work we now have a requirement to secure image
"push" actions to per-namespace credentials. In harbor this would require
interactions with the harbor API and doesn't fit very well with "desired state

> configuration".

Reviewer 2: This paragraph could be a bit clearer. Maybe something like

> With the "dev namespaces" work we want to ensure each namespace has its own place to push docker images
> and that one namespace can't overwrite another namespace's docker images. This would be very fiddly to achieve
> with harbor because it would require
> interactions with the harbor API and doesn't fit very well with "desired state
> configuration".  However with ECR we can quite easily give each namespace its own ECR repository, which
> would fulfil this requirement.

Reviewer 3: Reworded more like yours ... but i avoided "each namespace gets an ECR repository" since it's more like that it's more suitable for provisioning with seperate creds

See also [ADR012]

## Decision

We will replace the harbor registry (the last harbor component in use in GSP at
time of writing) with AWS ECR with "push" credentials managed by the [Service

> Operator].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Operator][].
```

## Context

[Harbor][] has proved itself to be rather unstable (causing several incidents from
various root causes). We have also been gradually rolling back our usage within
GSP of the various tools that Harbor provides:

* we are not using notary for signing (image provenance); this is now being
  handled using image digests instead of tags, enforced by gatekeeper
* we haven't yet implemented anything using Clair
* we no longer have a requirement for anonymous public access of docker repositories

It is also worth noting that some of these (e.g. "Clair") have been integrated
into AWS ECR since we last looked.

In order to implement the decisions in [ADR045 dev namespaces][ADR045] we must
ensure that each namespace has its own place to store docker images, and that
one namespace cannot overwrite another namespace's docker images. This would be
very fiddly to achieve with Harbor because it would require interactions with
the Harbor API which doesn't fit very well with "desired state configuration".
However with ECR we can more easily leverage IAM and the existing Service
Operator patterns to allow tenants to provision their own ECR repositories with
their own credentials.

> See also [ADR012][]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See also [ADR012][].
```
